Code and data
---


# Clone Github Repository 

```
mkdir -p $HOME/phd && cd $HOME/phd 
git clone https://github.com/mxochicale/phd-thesis
```












# organise the following




`$HOME/phd/phd-thesis/figs/svg2png.sh`

```
# Working Path
WP=$HOME/phd 
#echo "$WP" 

```




`$HOME/phd/phd-thesis/0_code_data/1_code/2_libraries_functions/readme.md`




# `/home/map479/phd/phd-thesis/0_code_data/1_code/5_creation_of_curated_timeseries/code_raw2aligned/mscripts`


`sh mkdir_tmp_phdtmpdata`

```
mkdir -p $HOME/phd/tmp/phdtmpdata
```




`/home/map479/phd/phd-thesis/0_code_data/1_code/5_creation_of_curated_timeseries/code_raw2aligned/B_rscripts-hii`


```
main_data_path=	'/phd/tmp/phdtmpdata/hii_time_aligned_timeseries'
data_path <-  paste(home_path,main_data_path,sep="")

main_outcomes_path = '/phd/tmp/phdtmpdata/outcomes'
outcomes_path <- paste(home_path, main_outcomes_path, sep="")
```

























# organisation of paths


`0_data` contains all the input data that is either 
retrieved from external sources or created manually. 
The core principle here is that nothing in this folder 
should ever be modified. 
The data in this folder should remain identical 
to the way that you have retrieved or manually created it.


`1_code` contains all your code files. This includes, 
for example, code files for Python, Stata, R, or SAS 
(or a combination thereof). Furthermore, I recommend 
to name your code files starting with a number 
to indicate the order of execution. This makes it 
obvious in what order files should be executed.


`2_pipeline` contains a separate sub-folder for each code 
file included in the `1_code` folder, they correspond based 
on the name (minus the file extension). This implies, 
for example, that a code file “0_load_data.ipynb” in `1_code` 
would have a sub-folder in the `2_pipeline` folder with the 
name “0_load_data”. 
The main idea is that all output generated by a code file 
ends up in their corresponding pipeline folder. 
This makes it very easy to understand how data is flowing 
between code files as the data location indicates where 
it was generated. To further organize the generated outputs, 
I advise the following folders in each sub-folder: 
out, store, and tmp.

`2_pipeline -> sub-folder -> out` contains files that you 
save with the intention of loading them in a future code file. 
These are usually the “end-products” of the current code file.

`2_pipeline -> sub-folder -> store` contains files that you save 
with the intention of loading them in the current code file. 
This is, for example, used in scenarios where it takes a while 
to run parts of your code and to avoid having to re-run 
these parts every time you might want to intermittently save 
the progress of your generated data to the store folder.

`2_pipeline -> sub-folder -> tmp` contains files that you save 
for inspection purposes or some other temporary reason. 
The basic principle is that you should not have to worry 
about anything in the tmp folder being deleted as it only 
serves a temporary purpose.

`3_output` contains any final output files that are intended 
to go into the paper. This includes files such as tables 
and figures.


There are also a couple of additional principles 
that are worth mentioning:

* You should only load data in your code files from either 
the `0_data` folder or any of the out folders in the `2_pipeline` 
sub-folders.

* You should only load data from out folders belonging to 
code files that are executed beforethe current code file 
that you are working in. 
For example, you should never load data from the out folder 
of “5_run_analysis” when you are working in the code file 
“2_process_data”. 
This is to guarantee that the code files can executed in order.

* It is important to always set the working directory to the 
top-level project folder. This enables you to use relative paths 
to refer to the various folders which makes the whole project 
folder portable. In other words, using relative paths you 
can copy your project folder to another computer and as long as 
the working directory is set to the top-level project folder 
all code will work without a problem.


REF: https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-keep-your-research-projects-organized-part-1-folder-structure-10bd56034d3a




